The NOn-STationary RAndom field model (NoStRa).

The R package NoStRa allows one to carry out numerical experiments with the 
Doubly Stochastic Advection-Diffusion-Decay Model.

The model is described in the paper
"A doubly stochastic advection-diffusion-decay model for testing  data assimilation methodologies"
by Michael Tsyrulnikov and Alexander Rakitko
(to be submited to Quart. J. Roy. Meteorol. Soc.)

With this R package, one can reproduce all results reported in the paper.

The paper proposes a new doubly stochastic advection-diffusion-decay model defined on the 1D
spatial domain (the circle).
It is intended to be used in testing and developing data assimilation methodologies
as well as in a broader context of non-stationary spatio-temporal random field modeling.
The model is hierarchical: it is a stochastic (forced by the white noise) 
partial differential equation whose coefficients are 
spatio-temporal random fields by themselves
satisfying their own stochastic partial differential equations  with constant coefficients.
The solution to the model has complex spatio-temporal covariances
with the tunable degree of non-stationarity in space-time.
Another important feature of the  model is that it allows the
estimation of ``true'' space and time specific spatio-temporal covariances: 
both the signal covariances and
the error covariances for any filter in question. 
This provides the researcher not only with the true state, 
as in the Observing Systems Simulation Experiments (OSSE) methodology,
but also with the true field and error ``covariances of the day''.
The capabilities of the  doubly stochastic model are illustrated 
in numerical experiments with the Ensemble Kalman Filter (EnKF).
A  spectral-space examination of the {true} EnKF prior covariances
suggests a new parametric non-stationary spatial covariance model. 
The spatial model is shown to yield a good approximation to the true covariances
and thus can potentially be used to regularize the specification of the
prior covariances in ensemble based data assimilation techniques.

The main author of the R package is Alexander Rakitko rakitko@gmail.com.

The corresponding author of the paper is Michael Tsyrulnikov mik.tsyrulnikov@gmail.com.

17 Aug 2017
